(whistling)
In the last video we learned all
about flex-basis, flex-grow, and flex-shrink
and how all of that works.
In this video, I want to take a little bit further
and see how it works when you've maybe
changed a direction of your axises,
or if you have items that wrap, which is more likely.
I just got the flex-wrapping in columns one open here.
Again, we're just right back with our six little
emoji friends here that we're gonna be working with.
I've got display:flex on our flex container,
and then on each of our items,
like .box, I'll grab 'em all,
I'm just gonna set a flex-basis of 500px and give it a save.
You'll see what happens is that, since I gave it 500px,
that will be 500 plus 500 plus 500,
they're all clearly not 500 pixels wide.
They're 233 pixels wide, and how come?
That's because what is kicking in right now?
I should ask you, what's kicking in?
Is the flex-grow kicking in,
or is the flex-shrink kicking in?
After we give the 500 pixels to each of them,
we actually don't have enough room for all of these six.
That'd be 3,000 pixels wide.
What is our browser at right now?
We're at about 1,400 pixels wide.
We just don't have enough room for it,
and when you kick on flex-shrink, the default is one,
which means each item gets enough space.
However, we can go back to our container
and turn on flex-wrap.
Just say wrap, give it a save, and refresh,
and you can see, okay, that's interesting.
Now, the items are now getting their, view inspect one,
500 pixel flex-basis on, and now we've got this
extra space to the right, so you tell me,
how do we deal with extra space?
That's called flex-grow.
Give it a save and now each of them
are going to be evenly distributed between the two.
Now, where this becomes interesting is
if I select box three, for example,
and I change the flex-grow
to something ridiculous like 10 and refresh,
look what happens.
Now, previously we've only been working with one row,
and now, since we have flex-wrap turned on,
flex-grow, -shrink, and -basis, all of those work
only on the row that they are on,
so they don't have any effect on the item before or after,
which is fantastic because we don't have any sort of,
if I look at the index here,
we don't have any sort of weird HTML wrapping going on here.
It's all just working out for us.
Now what I want to do is change the axis.
It's been a couple of videos since
I've really nailed down axis.
By default, the axis in Flexbox,
the default one is left to right.
The main axis goes from left to right
and the cross axis is from top to bottom.
By default, the flex-direction is what?
It's row, so if I put on row it does nothing,
but if I change that from row to column,
what happens? Refresh. Whoa! What's going on here?
Interesting what just happened. Let's peel this back a bit.
If I take this flex-basis off,
let me just take everything off here and refresh.
What's going on here? The items are stacking themselves
vertically because we've changed the axises,
and the main axis used to be left to right
and now it's from top to bottom,
so our elements are going from top to bottom.
Now, if I put a flex-grow of one on one of them
and a flex-grow of 10, let's maybe not do 10,
let's do five on the third one and refresh.
You'll notice that nothing happens, and that's because,
again, there is no height on this container.
If I were to put a border, 10px, solid, goldenrod,
let's get a new color out, keep it fun.
See this goldenrod border here?
This is where is ends at the bottom here.
In order for it to fill the available space,
there is really no extra space and it's really
not hurting it vertically because there's extra space here.
What we actually need to do, again,
is put a min-height on that,
and give it a save.
There we go. Interesting what happens here is that
if I resize vertically,
you'll see that at this point right here,
there is extra space, and because box three
has a flex-grow of five, it's going to get
five times the amount of extra space
that this one has in there.
Now, what happens if,
previously when we were working with the
left to right and we ran out of space horizontally,
it would wrap onto the next line,
so what happens if we give each of our items
a flex-basis of, let's say, 250px?
Each of them, ideally, will be 250px. Refresh.
Now, you'll see that they go all vertically, right?
Each of them get their 250 pixels, 250 and they'll go.
There's no extra space, there's not too much space.
That's because, since we're working vertically now,
we've got all the space that we want.
Browsers scroll by default top to bottom.
A way we could fix that is we could put
a hard height on it and set up a min-height.
Whoa! Look what happened here.
Let's go through what's going on here.
We've got our 250 pixels for each one.
However, since box three has a flex-grow of five,
it divvied up the 250, the 250, the 250,
and then there's a little bit left at the bottom here,
and it gave three five times as much as the rest.
This is where the really interesting part comes in.
Instead of, when we had them in rows,
where it would wrap around underneath,
it will wrap around to the side.
You can go ahead and give different flex-basises
to all of the different ones that we would want.
Bring that down here. Flex-basis 100px.
You'll notice that, since now that one's 100px,
it actually can fit inside of there
and it (whistles) sneaks it down on there.
Five and six, why are they so big?
Because we really only had two extra ones that we want
on here, and by default, it's going to stretch them
across evenly on the available space.
That's the way it works like that.
If I see what happens when we run
out of space vertically here,
once we hit that 250, 250, 250, plus 100,
once we hit that limit vertically, there's no space for it,
but it does know that it can put it right up here,
so it's gonna wrap it around to the next column.
If we duplicate this a couple times,
you can go as far as you want and make some
pretty cool different layouts there,
when you're just working on your vertical axis.
At a certain point, they're all just gonna
come onto one column and you'll have a horizontal scroll.
(whistling)